[AUDIO LOGO]
>> Telepathic messages, the
projection of consciousness,
typology of close encounters.
Are there protocols for contact?
I'm Ricardo Gonzalez Corpancho.
Welcome aboard
"The Arc of Time."
[THEME MUSIC]
Throughout this program,
we've analyzed the contact
experiences with
non-human intelligences.
Cases such as
Parravicini in Argentina
or George Adamski
in the United States
are still open files in ufology.
But is it possible to enter into
communication with these beings
through your own initiative?
Are there preparation
protocols preparing
for an encounter with them?
Let's talk first about
the classic typology
of close encounters.
Many will remember the famous
film, "Close Encounters
of the Third Kind."
A 20-year-old
Steven Spielberg was
making known the
contact experiences
that he had investigated--
perhaps the US Air
Force and other scholars--
through a science fiction film.
However, he was advised by
many of these researchers,
among them one who
we already mentioned,
Dr. J. Allen Hynek, an
American astrophysicist who
was an advisor to the
United States Air Force
to investigate sightings of
unidentified flying objects.
It was precisely Hynek who
created the famous typology
of close encounters in three
categories that describe
the event and the witness.
In the first place, we'll
talk about the sighting--
the close encounter
of typology one,
when an unidentified
object appears and is
observed by one
or more witnesses.
Sometimes it can
be photographed.
Sometimes it can be filmed.
And it would be a first
approach-- the UFO sighting.
But then there is
a closer approach.
That is within typology
two of the close encounters
from Dr. Hynek.
In this case, some
scholars consider
that this is the landing,
the marks, footprints
in the field associated
with the UFO sighting
when it lands or takes off.
These important signs
are left in the place
where it has manifest itself.
Other scholars, in
fact, also associate
paranormal or strange
phenomena that
could be related to the
approach of the object.
For example, if a
person is at home
and has that irrepressible
feeling to go to the park
outside of the
house and suddenly
observes the object and animals.
Pets start barking, leaves
fall off the trees--
that type of phenomena is so
typical in close encounters.
This would also include
category two from Dr. Hynek.
But category three, the
one that lends its name
to Steven Spielberg's film,
is a lot more disturbing
because we are no longer just
in the proximity of an object,
but also crew, occupants,
beings, entities
associated with the sighting.
The close encounter
of the third kind--
contact with these
beings, whoever they are.
And obviously, all this has
led to a great discussion
in ufology--
if these beings correspond
to extraterrestrial entities,
operating vehicles
with technology
that escapes our
imagination that
evasively appear in our skies.
And on very rare occasions,
they have landed,
and they have been observed
by multiple witnesses.
Like the case of the
famous policeman,
Lonnie Zamora in Socorro,
which was the case that
convinced Dr. Hynek that
something very extraordinary
was happening.
Or maybe we are
facing another type
of beings that are
not necessarily
extraterrestrial entities.
This is another hypothesis
for close encounters--
that they possibly
could be creatures
that come from the
underground world,
from intraterrestrial bases.
Entities that have
developed in silence,
while humans on the surface
weren't aware of them.
Others talk about
interdimensional creatures
that could be crossing
over from other dimensions,
from other realities, and
manifesting themselves
in our time.
And more than a few
consider, as Dr. Hynek also
contemplated in his day, as
well as Dr. Jacques Vallée,
that they were only
holograms-- that there
was nothing physical.
That an unknown
intelligent phenomenon
managed to slip into the psyche
of those contact witnesses,
making them believe that
they were seeing vehicles
and that they were seeing
occupants of the alleged UFOs.
But here I wonder,
how can we interpret
cases of these objects that
have been photographed, filmed?
That have left
marks on the ground
with very high
temperatures, where
samples have been
studied and certified
by leading laboratories?
Fighter pilots, combat-trained
pilots from the United States
and other nations
of the Earth, who
have seen these objects
recorded on radar
moving at supersonic speeds?
Is that, by chance, a hologram?
Does this fit the
hallucination theory?
I think that in the case
of close encounters,
there's a little
bit of everything.
I call it the
multi-source hypothesis.
In 1977, Uruguayan ufologist
who resided in Argentina,
Fabio Zerpa, one of the
pioneers of UFO research
in Latin America
since the 1960s,
had participated in a
conference in that year, 1977,
in Acapulco, Mexico.
He was accompanied by
other great scholars,
among whom I could mention
Antonio Rivera, Dr.
Hynek himself, and
Jacques Vallée,
and some contact witnesses such
as Enrique Castillo Rincón.
It was then that Fabio
Zerpa suggested to Dr. Hynek
that this typology of close
encounters should be expanded,
not stuck to the
classic three moments--
sighting, landing, and
the face to face meeting
with the alleged crew
members of the UFO.
They should add a typology
for close encounters
that allow the witness
to be taken away
inside the
extraterrestrial ship--
famous cases such
as, for example,
the controversial
Betty and Barney Hill.
The Hills in 1961 were carried
by some strange creatures
inside a UFO, and they
lost their memories
of that experience until
they could recover them
through hypnosis, thanks
to Dr. Benjamin Simon.
Or the case of Travis
Walton in the Arizona forest
in the 1970s.
They are close encounters of the
fourth type because the witness
was inside the ship.
And it was Fabio Zerpa who said
at that congress in Acapulco
in 1977 in Mexico to Dr.
Hynek that there should also
be a typology number five.
Close encounters
of the fifth kind
are associated with
telepathy-- communication
through consciousness--
since Zerpa had investigated
several cases such as the one
cited, Castillo Rincón, where
there was a telepathic protocol
of witness preparation,
a protocol of intent,
frequency, and vibration.
Although this sounds
very mystical,
it allowed for the creation
of the best communication
conditions and contact
with the extraterrestrials.
And in this case, we're
talking about communication
with extraterrestrials for
purposes of friendly approach,
as has been in our
case and the others
that we have been discussing
throughout this program.
Because there is a little of
everything in the universe
and there are
multiple cases that
have occurred on our
planet, the typology
of the fifth kind
proposed by Zerpa
is comprised of
psychic preparation,
telepathic and
extrasensory communication,
to get closer to the
extraterrestrials.
I emphasize and reiterate,
he proposed this in 1977
at the Acapulco
conference in Mexico.
That typology of the
fourth and fifth kind
is known as the Zerpa
classification--
something that is not well
known in North American ufology,
but which now is
being spoken of,
maybe due to empirical evidence
through field experimentation,
which correspond to
close encounters.
As you may recall in
previous episodes,
we have referred to the case
of Maria del Socorro Perez,
Marla, who has had
extraordinary experiences
since the late 1960s.
But her case began to
become known in 1972.
Her group also followed
a telepathic preparation
based on training of the
mind through concentration
techniques, meditation,
all types of exercises
to promote the development
of the consciousness
to enter into
communication with entities
of extraterrestrial origin.
I will admit that
when investigating
these issues of consciousness,
telepathy, meditation, even
mantra techniques or
vocalization of power words--
sound techniques
to harmonize groups
of people who intended on
initiating communication
with extraterrestrials--
I recognized that it
made me a little wary.
I thought that this was
taking the investigation
of UFO phenomenon and the
extraterrestrial hypothesis
too far toward a mystic
experience, which could give
rise to all types of confusion.
What does telepathy,
spirituality,
this type of practice have to do
with contact with civilizations
from other worlds?
I experienced this
firsthand when in Peru, I
investigated different
close encounters
in the desert of Chilca, a very
special place of contact that
became well known in 1974
thanks to Spanish journalist JJ
Benítez, who had
participated in a scheduled
sighting with the Rahma
group that I mentioned,
and is perhaps the most
important contact movement
in the history of Latin America.
They, as well as Marla
and Castillo Rincón,
participated in some
protocol of close encounters
of the fifth kind--
the telepathy, meditation,
raising the frequency,
attempting to make contact
with beings from other worlds.
It was then in the
field and practice
that I realized that I was
prejudiced, that I was wrong,
and I actively participated
in these kinds of experiences.
I noticed that when the
group on the field trips
was more united, more sensitive,
calmer, in perfect balance,
all this was achieved through
coexistence, through meditation
practice, with the positive
intention of attempting
communication with the universe.
This is when the
experiences flowed better.
Of course, this is
not an "abracadabra."
It's not something magical
that any person who
practices these techniques will
be guaranteed a close encounter
with these beings.
Because they, too,
have their agendas.
They also have their purposes.
And they know that their
contact with ordinary witnesses
like us is very complex.
It is very difficult, and they
try not to intervene directly
in our personal
matters so as to not
cause any problems, personal
or social, with human beings.
They are looking for
people with resilience,
able to adapt and not stick
to just the phenomenon
or experiences, but who dare
to share their testimony,
as we are doing right now.
Not to convince you that
these contacts and close
encounters are real, but
to invite other people who
felt alone or ridiculed
for having faced
these contacts to feel
supported and generate,
as I've already said, a critical
mass of consciousness, which
prepares the best
contact conditions.
My tribute goes out to my
dear friend Fabio Zerpa, who
has already passed,
because he was
the one who invented the
term "close encounters
of the fifth kind."
Of course, there
are many protocols
for contact,
different techniques
and different systems
of understanding
how these experiences occur.
I have widely addressed
it in my books.
But in this episode,
I will speak
of four important pillars.
This is the most
important protocol.
We call it the
resonance protocol.
It is based, according
to the messages
from the extraterrestrials
themselves,
on the equation light,
form, and sound.
This equation allows
the contact witness
to generate a field
of ideal coherence
to face these experiences
and close encounters.
In the first
instance, it could be
limited to mental experiences,
holographic experiences, which
we will talk about
in a few moments.
And in other episodes,
much more intense
face to face contacts,
which could even
imply the physical
approach of these beings.
This equation of
light, form, and sound
is not much different
from old Eastern teachings
that describe light as thought,
the light of the mind--
shinta, deep thought, some
Eastern scholars would say.
The form could be
related to the structure,
to visualization practices
with geometry exercises,
or even though this sounds
strange or very different,
practices involving certain
positions of the human body,
or some gestures known
in the East as mudras--
gestures of power to
somehow fuse or manipulate
forms of energy
and consciousness.
And finally, sound,
which can be achieved
with mantras or other
techniques which
I have seen in the field--
people harmonizing experiences
in the field with sound
bowls or even with some
native instruments,
as if it were a
shamanic ceremony.
In that vein, on my
expeditions around the world,
when I have lived with different
Native groups or shamans,
they confessed to me to
have observed bright objects
in the sky that approached
them, interacted with them,
that gave off large beams
of light like flashes
when they were
singing, when they
were reciting their
mantras, or even when
they were dancing and playing
some kind of instrument.
Incredible.
It reminds me of the film that
I mentioned, "Close Encounters
of the Third Kind."
Surely you will not
have forgotten the scene
in Dharamshala in India.
At the beginning of the
film, a lot of people
were chanting a
mantra, and they had
learned the sound,
the frequency,
the vibration emitted by
the ship they had observed.
That sound, the famous [HUMMING
THEME FROM "CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF
THE THIRD KIND"] dun,
dun, dun, dun, dun,
which was transformed
into a mantra,
ended up being the anthem of
that famous film by Steven
Spielberg.
Then the extraterrestrials
and their communications
suggested that in order to
reach extraordinary states
of consciousness as a
means of communication
with them and
other realities, we
had to work on this frequency
of light, form, and sound.
And it was done through
meditation, concentration,
visualization techniques
of geometric shapes
that were suggested, in
fact, by these beings.
Such as, for example, the
hypercube or the tesseract,
which in his day, English
mathematician Charles Howard
Hinton called a contact route
with the fourth dimension.
In a book he published at
the end of the 19th century,
he even asked his
students to try
to visualize the
tesseract in movement
as a method of mental
training to promote
the awakening of the mind.
Incredible.
So all these techniques--
light, form, and sound--
have been applied by contact
groups for many decades.
I know that in
the United States,
you are trying to study all
this and apply it in the field.
But in Latin America,
these experiences
have been happening for
almost half a century.
As a footnote on the
mystery of the hypercube,
as we have spoken
on occasion, we
live in a universe
of three dimensions.
Humans are in a universe in our
perception of three dimensions,
which are not the only ones.
There are higher dimensions.
Physics understands
these dimensions
as measurements--
length, width, and depth.
The fourth dimension
would be time.
Obviously, objects that move
in a fourth or fifth dimension
are difficult to process, if
not impossible, in more sensible
terms by the human
mind, which is
confined to the aforementioned
third dimension.
That's when the figure of
the hypercube or tesseract
emerged, which is a
three-dimensional cube
projected in the
fourth dimension.
The tesseract, however,
is the reflection,
the shadow of what a
hypercube would probably
be like in a fourth dimension.
A hypercube in the
fourth dimension
is impossible to
recreate in our brain,
but we can see its reflection,
its likeness, like its shadow
in our reality.
And that would be the hypercube.
As suggested by
Charles Howard Hinton,
with the visualization
of the hypercube,
Ivica and Antarelle,
extraterrestrial beings
who have entered
into communication
with different contact
groups, suggested
working with the
hypercube figure
through a
visualization exercise.
According to the
extraterrestrials,
visualization of the hypercube
in a movement technique
is how this figure evolves
into a dynamic in your mind,
allowing you to activate secret
circuits in your consciousness
to get closer to an
extraordinary state
of consciousness.
And in fact, this hypercube
visualization technique
in mental meditation
exercises is
what has trained at certain
times contact groups
in order to attempt
telepathic communication
or even making their
own trip through time.
To all this, when we speak
of extraordinary states
of consciousness,
some achieve it
through meditation,
concentration,
spiritual discipline,
visualization
of geometric figures.
We just mentioned the
case of the hypercube.
Also, through some very
intense experiences
that can generate those
extraordinary states
of consciousness--
nature, water, the sun's
rays, contemplation,
including a terminal illness--
there are different stimuli that
can precipitate these states.
But contact experiences
and their protocols
suggest the techniques
of meditation
and inner discipline.
How are you going to attempt
contact with the universe
if you don't at least attempt
to be in contact with yourself,
since the most important
close encounter affirmed
by these beings is not with
the stars, but with ourselves?
In my coexistence with
different indigenous
groups, shamans,
healers with whom
I have been able to talk
about extraterrestrial contact
and their experiences,
they, too,
have achieved an extraordinary
state of consciousness
after, for example,
consuming sacred plants.
A very famous case in Peru
is the intake of ayahuasca,
the vine of the dead.
And through that
sacred ancestral drink,
for these jungle
groups particularly,
they can enter into
extraordinary states
of consciousness and connect
with other realities, which
has led to a great discussion
among specialists--
psychologists, psychiatrists,
neuroscientists--
if those extraordinary
states of consciousness
penetrate into other unknown
dimensions or other archetypes
that dwell in the subconscious
of each individual.
A fascinating case is that of
Peruvian Pablo Amaringo Shuña,
who through ayahuasca observed
these other realities, and in
them, according to his
testimony, which he depicted
on hundreds of canvases--
beautiful paintings.
Flying objects even appear
there similar to UFOs,
flying saucers, entities
with human features
who, according to him, were
ancestors of the universe
or guardians of nature.
The question that
we ask ourselves
when contemplating these
images is, did Amaringo Shuña
have some contact with
extraterrestrial beings,
with beings of nature, with
interdimensional entities,
through ayahuasca?
However, I must add that the
consumption of sacred plants
requires great responsibility
and should not generate
dependence on sacred plants.
At least, that's what I
learned from the great masters
of the Andes and of
the jungles in Peru.
They can show you the way,
they can work like an oracle,
but if you become
dependent on the plant
and you constantly have
to consume it in order
to see your shadows
and follow your path,
there is something that
you haven't learned.
The great masters say that
any external experience,
be it through sacred
plants or even contact
with life forms
that are not human,
like the experiences with
extraterrestrial contact,
they must not
generate dependencies.
They are just temporary
external stimuli in order
for you to find your own way.
And how did the natives
know about these plants?
Good question.
There are many traditions.
Some of them say
that their ancestors
had contact with these gods
and that's how they learned.
And others say that
they learned it
by connecting with Mother
Earth, with Pachamama.
In any event, it is something
to be taken very seriously,
with a lot of respect and
with a lot of preparation.
I will say that
extraterrestrials
in their communications
within the contact protocols
suggest techniques that are
based on individual development
without depending on
anything external.
Therefore, proper
breathing, concentration,
and meditation with
purpose and frequency
to get closer to
these other realities
is the backbone
of contact groups
who worked with close
encounters of the fifth kind
in Latin America, as I said,
for almost half a century.
The second protocol
is telepathy.
Obviously, communication
with these beings
goes through mental
pathways, but it's not
that the contact witness
is a born telepath,
like apparently Benjamín
Solari Parravicini was,
but these beings
make the greatest
effort because
they have developed
their psychic faculties.
And with an antenna or channel
that has been prepared,
that has in some
way opened your mind
to receive it, they contact
you and transmit a frequency
information.
That frequency information
or energy contains images,
contains data that the
brain of the contact witness
will decode in their own
language or in words.
Within the contact
techniques that
are well known in Latin
America that were used back
in his day, Enrique Castillo
Rincón, who I mentioned,
the Rahma groups in
Peru, or in fact,
as happened in our case,
our psychographics or
instrumentalized
telepathy-- that is,
the witness receives
the telepathic impulse
and feels the need
to write it down.
Everything that is received
is written down in a notebook
and decoded by the brain.
It's like I'm getting a
letter from extraterrestrials,
even though it sounds
odd, a written message.
And this is so that it is
not forgotten and can then
be analyzed.
In this telepathic protocol,
the extraterrestrials
suggest that the witness be
in a state of meditation,
in perfect balance
and equilibrium,
and within these
techniques, these beings
have even suggested, in
their communications,
that a witness who attempts
them should maintain
a healthy physical and
mental lifestyle so
that no type of
distortion or interference
may be generated in the
message that is being received.
That is, the witness
be a healthy person
without any dependency on
stimulants of any kind that
may affect personal balance.
This is not a minor
issue, because entering
extraordinary states
of consciousness
requires physical discipline,
a healthy diet, and being
rid of any stimulant that
may affect your psyche,
let alone drugs or
alcohol or tobacco.
All these things should
be avoided in order
for better mental preparation.
It is very interesting
because many people who
have approached these matters
to see if they could have
some kind of contact
or communication
with these beings,
what they were doing
was disciplining themselves
to lead a healthier life.
Now, I want to reiterate
that attempting
these telepathic
contacts is not something
that happens automatically,
just by following protocols.
It all depends on the
agenda of these beings.
We can try, but why do
we want to have contact?
Are we considering
the consequences?
Are we willing to face
very complex processes
in our personal
context by making
known what we have experienced?
What good is it for a person to
have these experiences if they
can't in some way put them
into practice in something
that is very useful for
themselves and for others?
This is a little of what
these beings transmit
in their communications.
Once these messages are received
in this telepathic protocol,
receipt needs to be confirmed,
since the antenna or channel
obviously could have some
type of interference.
Prior knowledge,
readings, or emotions
could distort the
original message
that these beings
have transmitted.
Within the contact
protocols, these beings
suggest confirming the message
through a scheduled contact,
especially if the content
is very relevant--
that is, they
indicate at what time
they might appear through a
sighting with the day and time
to verify the contact was made.
And then the content is
very carefully analyzed
through wise judgment, that
the information is such
that it can be verified over
time, that it is balanced,
that it promotes unity.
Messages that are
convoluted, catastrophic,
supposed communications
with religious overtones
obviously are not messages
from higher beings.
Those could reflect the biases
of the supposed channel who
categorizes it as an
extraterrestrial message,
and it's nothing more
than their own beliefs
that spill into this
supposed communication.
Telepathic messages follow a
strict verification protocol,
which must be rigorous
when attempting contact
with non-human intelligences.
This is the basic
telepathy protocol
that is used in contact groups.
The interdimensional protocol
is another of the pillars,
and it is extraordinary.
These beings have the
ability to concentrate
a large amount of energy in one
place and break or distort--
I don't know what terms to use--
the concept of space-time.
They concentrate such a
great amount of energy
that a kind of vortex
opens, which they somehow
are able to keep stable
so that the individual may
enter into that force.
In Peruvian contact
experiences, this phenomenon
is called xendras, a term coined
by the Rahma group I already
mentioned--
interdimensional portals.
And according to these
beings, when you already
have gone through the stages
of the sightings, the stages
of the mental
contacts, and you are
more accustomed to
communication with them,
the next stage is to enter
inside these domes of energy.
Here you are seeing a
photograph of one of them
that I was able to photograph
at a contact in the Dominican
Republic in the
Constanza Mountains.
It's like a concentration
of bright white energy,
23 to 30 feet in diameter.
When you go into
this place, you may
go through experiences
of a mental nature,
holographic, or
even physical, where
you would find yourself face
to face with extraterrestrials.
It's like a field of coherence,
of artificial energy, where
an interaction may be carried
out with them in a safe manner.
They usually give notice
when these contacts will
be carried out, and obviously,
the same preparation protocol
of personal balance,
a healthy diet,
are applicable to this
type of experiences
due to the high
radiation emitted
by these xendras, or
interdimensional portals.
It is a way of
secure communication
which only occurs on very
rare circumstances, when
they deem necessary.
In my personal case,
on different occasions,
I've gone through these
dimensional steps,
which have been a part of
the history of contact cases
since the 1950s, but which
have had greater dissemination
as a result of the experiences
recorded in Peru, especially
in the Chilca Desert.
We were going out
into the desert.
These objects appeared.
They flew over the camp
with a lot of flashes coming
from them, as if they were
lightning bolts in a storm,
in an area where, by the
way, it doesn't rain.
It's a desert.
These flashes, or this
artificial lightning,
came from these shiny objects
and lit up the ground.
Incredibly, though, this
light, as if it had density,
was concentrating.
It was coming
together and making
a kind of bright crescent moon.
At that time, by telepathic
suggestion, mental instructions
from these beings, we set
aside any technological device
that we had with us or anything
metallic-- mobile phones,
watches, cameras.
We had to leave them in camp.
And we were just walking,
obviously with our clothing,
without any devices or
metals, at their suggestion.
I suppose that's because
of the field of radiation
from this xendra,
interdimensional portal,
or whatever it was.
And then we went in there.
We actually felt very intense
energies in our bodies.
We felt a type of
headache at first, nausea.
Some people even--
I'm telling it here on
camera without any kind
of apprehension--
some decided to ignore
the recommendations
of the extraterrestrials,
and they
hadn't followed the prior
preparation for nutrition,
maintaining a balance,
and they were in a rush,
expecting to have
this type of contact
when they were
inside the xendras.
They had a breakdown.
They felt ill.
Some even vomited or had to
leave the energy because they
couldn't handle it.
And the people who had
followed a diet accordingly,
who came in with a
different consciousness,
not seeking an exotic experience
with extraterrestrials
but with other intentions,
they had a better experience.
Before physically
meeting these beings,
when they had gotten
close to us, to our camps,
and we had seen them in the
company of other witnesses,
I met them with the first
step inside these xendras.
Their images were translucent.
They were bright, as
if I were seeing--
and in fact, it was--
a holographic projection.
It was a momentous step
for us to get used to them,
what they look like, and have
the first virtual reality
interaction within
these fields of energy.
And finally, the protocol
for physical contact.
You don't always get to
have this experience,
and I don't have much to add
because the preparation is
much stricter, stricter
than everything
I've mentioned so far.
There are cases of people who,
without prior preparation,
have had direct contact
with extraterrestrials.
But to maintain that contact,
that relationship over time,
they require preparation.
But most importantly,
beyond physical preparation
and mental preparation
with meditation techniques,
concentration that I
have already mentioned,
there is a paradigm shift.
Although it sounds
incredible, we
have to stop seeing these
beings as extraterrestrials,
like something beyond us.
If we start to see them as
intelligent creatures who
are part of life in the universe
in which the human species is
involved, perhaps we would
start to see this phenomenon
as a phenomenon.
We would see it as
something more natural.
The protocol for
physical contact
comes when the time is right.
The only preparation there is
for these experiences obviously
is a change in paradigm.
Then there are details
that these beings control.
If the contact is going to take
place in a remote location,
usually, so as not to affect
other people who are not
part of this process
of experiences,
they can do it on a mountain,
in a desert, in a forest,
in a secluded place.
They follow these protocols.
They usually point out places
of contact, neutral areas so
that experiences can take place.
All those variables are
controlled by mutual agreement
among those who extend the
invitation for the experience
and those who accept it.
But the paradigm shift is
the most important thing
to have face to face
contact with them,
if that is meant to happen.
And I daresay after having
seen them on several occasions,
that there is no
protocol that can prepare
you enough for this experience.
It's like going down
a roller coaster.
Even though you know
how the moment will
be and the speed of the car,
the roller coaster incline,
and even though you
know all the details,
once you are falling in
that great roller coaster,
nothing prepared you for that.
However, it is a
wonderful experience
if you put it into
perspective, an experience
that you will never
forget, an experience
that must be taken responsibly
and constructively,
because these contacts
obviously have a purpose.
In regards to these
close encounters
with the protocol
for physical contact,
I would like to
reflect on the fact
that these beings are attempting
to make friendly connections
with our species.
And it is a gradual process.
That's why they try to
approach a lone individual
or a small group of people--
so that they don't alter the
order of our human society.
They try, as I have said,
for us to stop seeing them
as extraterrestrials, and
that our species are united
by many ties, not only
genetic, but also consciousness
in an intelligent universe.
For now, they prefer these
contacts with individual women,
with individual men, with small
groups, not mass contacts,
because they are in that
anthropological process
of preparation.
But when human
beings, like I say,
stop seeing them as something
foreign, instead as part
of a cosmic family,
maybe we would
be ready for definitive
contact with civilizations
from other worlds.
Many scholars of
ufology have explored
contact protocols and
extraordinary states
of consciousness.
They consider that
the key for contact
with these other realities
is found in the mind.
And, without a doubt, it is.
But I must emphasize
that this tendency
to study external
stimuli that precipitate
those states, like
consuming sacred plants
or concoctions with
DMT that stimulate
the pineal gland, et cetera,
would be changed to explore
what human beings can
achieve on their own
through inner discipline,
without the need
for a magic formula.
It's a slower path,
without a doubt,
but safer and more long
lasting, because it
contains inner teaching.
And that is the goal for
contact with these beings.
That said, all the tools
provided by these techniques
are wonderful, but
they have to be
addressed with appropriate
preparation, respect,
and responsibility.
Contact protocols
and any technique
that stimulates
those experiences
should not be taken as a
kind of spiritual fast food.
As the great masters say, even
the great masters of ayahuasca
in the jungle, you cannot depend
on anything external to acquire
a vision for yourself.
The tools are just tools,
and their use is temporary.
Not by chance do
extraterrestrials affirm
in their messages that the one
main contact is the inner one.
To achieve something
extraordinary,
first we have to achieve the
extraordinary within ourselves.
And that is the real message.
I'll see you in
the next episode.
And on that occasion, we won't
travel towards the stars,
but toward the mysteries of
the intraterrestrial world.
I'm Ricardo González
Corpancho, and you're
aboard "The Arc of Time."
[THEME MUSIC]